# 2016

## 2016.56

Rounder ends for the Galaxy effect.

Use dynamic step angle to prevent holes in Galaxy effect for large radii.

Update Fan to support spatial colors and not leave any holes.

Update Shockwave to support spatial colors and not leave any holes.

~~Add sequence packaging to the tools menu "Tools,Package Sequence"~~

Add more sub buffer panel right click menu options for fast setting sub buffers

Add manual sub buffer editing allowing more precise control over sub buffer sizing

Add home \(start of song\) /end \(end of song\) /pause \(pause playing song\) shortcut keys in sequencer 

Add spatial color curves to single strand

Add spatial color curves to pinwheel

Add reset to default on remaining effects when you select a different effect to the one currently selected \(fan/morph/shockwave/dmx/fill/galaxy\)

## 2016.55

Add spatial color curves to spirals

Add spatial color curves to bars

Rewrite pinwheel effect to handle larger buffer sizes cleanly

Reset buffer panel when selecting a new effect

Reset buffer panel when selecting a new effect

Add spatial color curves on the On effect

When opening sequence check for a newer xbkp file. If it exists prompt the user to use it instead.

Add -w command line switch which wipes all saved settings restoring machine settings back to a true fresh install

Add checks for large blocks of unused channels between models

Add fireworks fire with timing mark

Add flip to curve

Detect multiple outputs sending data to the same place in check sequence

Input config upload to FPP for bridge mode

Input config upload to falcon controllers Output config upload to falcon controllers

## 2016.54

Add ability to time shift all effects in a sequence under Edit menu.

Basic TouchBar support on latest MacBookPros

## 2016.53

Add wrap option to Fill effect to allow turning off wrap feature.

Add ability to flip the channel numbers in custom model horizontally and vertically.

If the OpenGL driver didn't double-buffer, try again. Should help on GDI driver

## 2016.52

Changed minute : second counter to accept prepended and appended text

Add ability to import custom timing tracks \(and lyric tracks\) from other xLights sequences

## 2016.51

Update sequence checker to handle start channels in \#IP:UNIVERSE:CHANNEL format

~~Get the FPP Connect via FTP stuff working on the Mac, also allow named based FPP~~

Optimize logging in render loop ... means you cant turn on logging

Fixed change the link button image and hover text in the Setup screen \#342 

Add shutter support to DMX model.

Allow 180 trees to rotate and make sure they display as 180

Start all jobs that don't depend on anything above them first, then start the rest. 30% performance improvement

Make sure the list box is growable

Added tool tips for countdowns

New enhancements for countdown timer in text effect

Allow VU Meter to use Papagayo layer 0 as a timing track

Add right click menu to controller list on setup tab including:

* Inserts controller\(s\) at a point in the list
* Bulk update IP address, channel count and description
* Bulk delete
* delete key and control-A to select all
* activate and deactivate are now available as right click menu items. Double click or ENTER key open the controller to edit it
* grey out inactive controllers
* open controller in your browser

Allow rubber band selection of models on layout tab without holding down shift key

Add multi artnet universe adding

~~Add FPP Connect which will upload universe configuration, fseq and media files.~~

Add start channel checks to check sequence

Add a tooltip to show dir/media dir link button to make it clearer what the button does in each state

## 2016.50

Allow arrow key to be used to scroll in model list in Layout.

Add -r command line switch to render and save the fseq file and then exit

Modify value curve icon so its clear when its not selected. 

Make import and export of effects remember the last type used under assumption user is likely to want to use it again next time

Add palette reversal and deletion

Add multilayer insertion

Make garland lights on tree effect optional

Add custom model checks to check sequence

Add model checks to star and circles models to ensure all nodes correctly allocated

Add key model stats to model export

Add effect descriptions and effect export to get easy list of your effects in sequence and analysis of effect frequency.

Add check sequence check to highlight the network adapter we will output lights data to.

## 2016.49

Optimize blur - speeds rendering

Add additive/subtractive/min/max blend modes to on effect

Change default model group back to minimal grid.

Add value curves to Shockwave effect.

Add value curves to the Fan effect.

Add value curves to Morph effect.

Implement e1.31 sync

Add more checks in check sequence

Show single color string color in sequencer row heading

Add mouth image hints to faces dialog

Show waveform selected duration under Time/FPS display

Add star to ripple effect and VUMeter

Add a free model description property which is included in model export. Useful for documenting things like which controller output it should be on or the cable tag or anything else that you may currently record in a spreadsheet.

Shift + Double click on effect highlights corresponding portion of the waveform

Add a random color curve type ... randomly sets the color to a color between the colors of the color stops

Add palette quick sets

Add ArtNET support - DMX and Sync packets only

## 2016.48

Add sequence checker, "Tools,Check Sequence". This scans your Setup/Layout/Open sequence and highlights any items that might cause issues or unexpected behavior in xLights.

Add match duration effect alignment option.

## 2016.47

Add sub-models to Tree on LayoutPage, allow renaming

Put the currently open sequence filename in titlebar

Add standard OSX "Window" menu item

Add value curve user definable presets

## 2016.46

Add SubModels for defining effects for specific parts of a model

More work on enabling sandboxing on OSX

Update ffmpeg to new version that doesn't make calls to private API's

Text effect is now 1 line only. Old effects have been split with new layers added when necessary. 

Support mask settings for Text effect imported from SuperStar.

Add Shimmer option to Pictures effect to support Scene imports with shimmer from SuperStar.

Fix SuperStar import that created upside-down color wash effects.

Modify row copy/paste to work cross sequence and when Paste by Cell is active.

Make the transition smooth if you cancel a model Import.

Enhance the Layout page by combining the Model Groups and Models.

Add model preview to face and state dialogs to make setting channel ranges easier

Remove all but timing track option for piano effect

Add simple way to add 7 segment labels to model state definition

Add a view from rear option on custom model dialog to help you insert pixels correctly into your coro models

Add state and sub-model settings to xmodel files.

Add model wiring dialog for custom models ... shows you a reverse view of the model with the wiring.

